Readme.md, before:

# ResourceQuotable
A Rails quota limit gem for resources. UNDER DEVELOPMENT

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/resource_quotable.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/resource_quotable)
![Rspec suit](https://github.com/ngelx/resource_quotable/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg)
[![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/39eaf50966ab71353f66/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/github/ngelx/resource_quotable/test_coverage)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/39eaf50966ab71353f66/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/ngelx/resource_quotable/maintainability)

## Installation
Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'resource_quotable'
```

And then execute:
```bash
$ bundle install
```

Install migrations:
```bash
$ rails resource_quotable:install:migrations
$ rails db:migrate
```

Mount engine:
```ruby
# config/routes.rb
Rails.application.routes.draw do
  # ...
  mount ResourceQuotable::Engine => '/resource_quotable'
  # ...
end

```

Configure:
```ruby
# config/initializers/resource_quotable.rb

ResourceQuotable.setup do |config|

  ##
  # Mandatory settings
  #
  # Resources to track quota.
  #   format: Array of strings. Could be anything.
  #
  config.resources = %w[ResourceA ResourceB NotModel]

  ##
  # Optional settings

  # Method to access group form user instance.
  # default: 'group'
  config.group_method = 'user_group'

  # Method to access users form group instance.
  # default: 'users'
  config.users_method = 'admin_users'

  # main_content ID for rendering.
  # default: 'resource_quotable_content'
  config.main_content = 'resource_quotable_content'

  # Base controller.
  # default: '::ApplicationController'
  config.base_controller = '::ApplicationController'

  # Actions
  # Default [:create,:update, :destroy]
  config.actions = {
    create: 0,
    update: 1,
    destroy: 2,
    send: 3
  }.freeze

end
```

Attach Quotable to model.

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  acts_as_quota_trackable
  # ....
  belongs_to :group
  # ....
end

class Group < ApplicationRecord
  acts_as_quotable
  # ....
  has_many :users, dependent: :destroy
  # ....
end
```

## Usage

```erb
<% if allowed_to? :create, 'Post' %>
  <%= link_to "New", new_post_path %>
<% end %>
```

```ruby
class PostController < ApplicationController
  # ...

  def new
    quota_authorize! :create, 'Post'
    # ...
  end

  def create
    quota_increment! :create, 'Post'
    # ...
  end

  # ...
end
```

## Customizations

Customize views

`rails g resource_quotable:views`

Customize Controllers

```ruby
class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
  # ...

  # Customize how to get the current user model to track
  # default: current_user
  def load_quotable_tracker_user
    # ...
  end

  # Customize how to retrieve the group model
  # default: quotum_params[:group_type].constantize.find(quotum_params[:group_id])
  def load_quotable_group
    # ...
  end

  # Customize if the current_user can access to the quota management interface
  # default: true
  def allowed_to_manage_quota?
    # ...
  end

  # Customize How Quotum model are retrieve/filter. Useful for scopes
  # default: Quotum
  def quota_scoped
    # ...
  end

  # hook before every action
  # default: nil
  def resource_quotable_before
    # ...
  end

  # hook after every action
  # default: nil
  def resource_quotable_after
    # ...
  end

  # ...
end
```

## API

Still Working on this doc....

API is exposed as a services layer.

```ruby

# Check quota for 20 actions on resource for this user
ResourceQuotable::ActionServices::CheckMultiple.call(user: user, resource: 'ResourceX', action: :create, amount: 20)
# Increment 20 quota for actions on resource for this user
ResourceQuotable::ActionServices::IncrementMultiple.call(user: user, resource: 'ResourceX', action: :create, amount: 20)

# Reset. Probably a good idea to have a cron job that call this.
ResourceQuotable::Reset::Any.call
ResourceQuotable::Reset::Yearly.call
ResourceQuotable::Reset::Monthly.call
ResourceQuotable::Reset::Weekly.call
ResourceQuotable::Reset::Daily.call
```

## Contributing

Development environment is available in a devcontainer. You can use it to develop the gem.

```bash
$ docker compose -f .devcontainer/compose.yaml build
$ docker compose -f .devcontainer/compose.yaml run --rm rails-app bundle install
$ docker compose -f .devcontainer/compose.yaml run --rm rails-app bundle rails db:setup
$ docker compose -f .devcontainer/compose.yaml run --rm rails-app bundle rspec
```

The project follows conventional commit messages. See [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) for more details.

```bash
$ git commit -m "feat: add new feature"
$ git commit -m "fix: fix bug"
$ git commit -m "refactor: refactor code"
$ git commit -m "test: add tests"
$ git commit -m "docs: add documentation"
$ git commit -m "chore: other changes"
```

## License
The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

feat!: version bump. Forcing new release

Readme.md, after:

# ResourceQuotable
A Rails quota limit gem for resources. UNDER DEVELOPMENT

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/resource_quotable.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/resource_quotable)
![Rspec suit](https://github.com/ngelx/resource_quotable/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg)
[![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/39eaf50966ab71353f66/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/github/ngelx/resource_quotable/test_coverage)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/39eaf50966ab71353f66/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/ngelx/resource_quotable/maintainability)

## Installation
Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'resource_quotable'
```

And then execute:
```bash
$ bundle install
```

Install migrations:
```bash
$ rails resource_quotable:install:migrations
$ rails db:migrate
```

Mount engine:
```ruby
# config/routes.rb
Rails.application.routes.draw do
  # ...
  mount ResourceQuotable::Engine => '/resource_quotable'
  # ...
end

```

Configure:
```ruby
# config/initializers/resource_quotable.rb

ResourceQuotable.setup do |config|

  ##
  # Mandatory settings
  #
  # Resources to track quota.
  #   format: Array of strings. Could be anything.
  #
  config.resources = %w[ResourceA ResourceB NotModel]

  ##
  # Optional settings

  # Method to access group form user instance.
  # default: 'group'
  config.group_method = 'user_group'

  # Method to access users form group instance.
  # default: 'users'
  config.users_method = 'admin_users'

  # main_content ID for rendering.
  # default: 'resource_quotable_content'
  config.main_content = 'resource_quotable_content'

  # Base controller.
  # default: '::ApplicationController'
  config.base_controller = '::ApplicationController'

  # Actions
  # Default [:create,:update, :destroy]
  config.actions = {
    create: 0,
    update: 1,
    destroy: 2,
    send: 3
  }.freeze

end
```

Attach Quotable to model.

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  acts_as_quota_trackable
  # ....
  belongs_to :group
  # ....
end

class Group < ApplicationRecord
  acts_as_quotable
  # ....
  has_many :users, dependent: :destroy
  # ....
end
```

## Usage

```erb
<% if allowed_to? :create, 'Post' %>
  <%= link_to "New", new_post_path %>
<% end %>
```

```ruby
class PostController < ApplicationController
  # ...

  def new
    quota_authorize! :create, 'Post'
    # ...
  end

  def create
    quota_increment! :create, 'Post'
    # ...
  end

  # ...
end
```

## Customizations

Customize views

`rails g resource_quotable:views`

Customize Controllers

```ruby
class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
  # ...

  # Customize how to get the current user model to track
  # default: current_user
  def load_quotable_tracker_user
    # ...
  end

  # Customize how to retrieve the group model
  # default: quotum_params[:group_type].constantize.find(quotum_params[:group_id])
  def load_quotable_group
    # ...
  end

  # Customize if the current_user can access to the quota management interface
  # default: true
  def allowed_to_manage_quota?
    # ...
  end

  # Customize How Quotum model are retrieve/filter. Useful for scopes
  # default: Quotum
  def quota_scoped
    # ...
  end

  # hook before every action
  # default: nil
  def resource_quotable_before
    # ...
  end

  # hook after every action
  # default: nil
  def resource_quotable_after
    # ...
  end

  # ...
end
```

## API

Still Working on this doc....

API is exposed as a services layer.

```ruby

# Check quota for 20 actions on resource for this user
ResourceQuotable::ActionServices::CheckMultiple.call(user: user, resource: 'ResourceX', action: :create, amount: 20)
# Increment 20 quota for actions on resource for this user
ResourceQuotable::ActionServices::IncrementMultiple.call(user: user, resource: 'ResourceX', action: :create, amount: 20)

# Reset. Probably a good idea to have a cron job that call this.
ResourceQuotable::Reset::Any.call
ResourceQuotable::Reset::Yearly.call
ResourceQuotable::Reset::Monthly.call
ResourceQuotable::Reset::Weekly.call
ResourceQuotable::Reset::Daily.call
```

## Contributing

Development environment is available in a devcontainer. You can use it to develop the gem.

```bash
$ docker compose -f .devcontainer/compose.yaml build
$ docker compose -f .devcontainer/compose.yaml run --rm rails-app bundle install
$ docker compose -f .devcontainer/compose.yaml run --rm rails-app bundle rails db:setup
$ docker compose -f .devcontainer/compose.yaml run --rm rails-app bundle rspec
```

The project follows conventional commit messages. See [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) for more details.

```bash
$ git commit -m "feat: add new feature"
$ git commit -m "fix: fix bug"
$ git commit -m "refactor: refactor code"
$ git commit -m "test: add tests"
$ git commit -m "docs: add documentation"
$ git commit -m "chore: other changes"
```

Version are automatically bumped by the release workflow. See [Release Please](https://github.com/googleapis/release-please) for more details.

## License
The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
